---
lab:
    title: 'Migrate Windows Servers workloads by using Azure Migrate'
    module: 'TW-1002.1-2024: Windows Server Migration to Azure Technical Workshop'
---

## Lab: Migrate Windows Servers workloads by using Azure Migrate

Estimated Time: 180 minutes

## Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Plan and assess migration of Windows Server resources by using Azure Migrate
- Migrate Windows Server resources by using Azure Migrate

### Exercise 1: Discover and assess on-premises Windows Servers by using Azure Migrate

Estimated Time: 75 minutes

> **Note:** This scenario, for practical reasons, is performed on different set of servers than those you will use for migration in the last exercise of this lab. However, with the exception of being able to leverage existing assessment results, the migration process illustrated in that exercise would be largely the same (from the functional standpoint) if performed on the same Hyper-V virtual machines as those targeted by the Azure Migrate assessment.

In this exercise, you will use set up Azure Migrate in the on-premises environment and then use it to discover and assess Windows Servers assets. The exercise will involve the following on-premises servers:

- HYPERVHOST
- DC01
- FS01

The exercise consists of the following tasks:

- Task 1: Initiate provisioning of the Azure Migrate appliance
- Task 2: Set up prerequisites for the migration
- Task 3: Complete provisioning of the Azure Migrate appliance
- Task 4: Import data about Windows Server assets into Azure Migrate
- Task 5: Configure the Azure Migrate appliance
- Task 6: Assess manually imported data about Windows Server assets
- Task 7: Discover Windows Server assets by using the Azure Migrate appliance
- Task 8: Assess Windows Server assets discovered by using the Azure Migrate appliance

> **Note:** This exercise, for practical reasons, is performed on different set of servers than those you will migrate in the last exercise of this lab. This minimizes time it takes to complete individual stages of the migration process. However, the migration process illustrated in the last exercise of this lab would be largely the same (from the functional standpoint) if performed on the same Hyper-V virtual machines as those targeted by the Azure Migrate assessment.


#### Task 1: Initiate provisioning of the Azure Migrate appliance

In this task, you will initiate provisioning of the Azure Migrate virtual appliance on the Hyper-V host.

> **Note:** Generally, you would initiate provisioning of the Azure Migrate virtual appliance after you create an Azure Migrate project. The reason for altering this sequence in the lab is a transient issue that temporarily affects connectivity from the appliance to Microsoft cloud. This issue resolves automatically after about 10 minutes. To minimize its impact and the corresponding wait time, you will first initiate the appliance provisioning, then set up the Azure Migrate project, and then continue with appliance provisioning, once the issue is auto-resolved.

> **Note:** To accommodate the altered sequence (and to further minimize the wait time), the virtual machine files required to set up the appliance have been already downloaded to the lab computer. You will use these files in this task.

1. Connect to the console session of the lab server named **hypervhost** and, if needed, sign in as the built-in local Administrator account.
1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, launch the **Hyper-V Manager** console.
1. In the **Hyper-V Manager** console, in the **Actions** pane, select **Import Virtual Machine**.
1. On the **Before You Begin** page of the **Import Virtual Machine** wizard select **Next**.
1. On the **Locate Folder** page, in the **Folder** text box, enter **F:\\VMs\\AZMIG01\\** and select **Next**.
1. On the **Select Virtual Machine** page, accept the default selection and select **Next**.
1. On the **Choose Import Type** type, ensure that the **Register the virtual machine in-place (use the existing unique ID)** is selected and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Connect Network** page, in the **Connection** drop-down list, select **Internal** and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Summary** page, select **Finish**.

    > **Note:** Next, you will configure the Azure Migrate virtual appliance.

1. Back in the **Hyper-V Manager** console, select the newly imported virtual machine and, in the lower section of the **Actions** pane, select **Start**. 
1. Once the virtual machine is running, in the lower section of the **Actions** pane, select **Connect**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, on the **License terms** page, select **Accept**.
1. On the **Customize settings** page, use the **Password** and **Reenter password** text boxes to set the password for the local Administrator account to **Pa55w.rd1234** and then select **Finish**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, in the top menu, select **Action** and, in the drop-down menu, select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**.
1. When prompted, authenticate as the local Administrator using the newly set password.
1. If prompted **Do you want to allow your PC to be discoverable by other PCs and devices on this network?**, select **No**.
1. Once you sign in, wait for a web browser window to open.

    > **Note:** The web browser will automatically display a page hosted by the locally running web server on port 44368. 

1. When prompted to accept **Terms of use**, select **I agree**.
1. On the **Appliance Configuration Manager** page, verify that the **Check connectivity to Azure** and **Check time is in sync with Azure** steps successfully completed. 

    > **Note:** You will likely run into an issue with the step **Check connectivity to Azure** failing. If so, select **Diagnose and solve** and continue to the next task. 

#### Task 2: Set up prerequisites for the migration

In this task, you will set up an Azure Migrate project.

> **Note:** Azure Migrate supports a wide range of scenarios, including VMware-based virtualization and bare metal servers. For more information, refer to [Azure Migrate support matrix](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/migrate-support-matrix).

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, start a web browser and navigate to the Azure portal at `https:\\portal.azure.com`.
1. When prompted to authenticate, sign in by using the Microsoft Entra ID credentials provided to you by the lab provider.
1. In the Azure portal, in the **Search** text box, search for and select **Azure Migrate**.
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Get started** page, in the **Migrate and modernize your datacenter** pane, in the **Servers, databases, and web apps** section, select **Discover, assess, and migrate**.
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, select **Create project**.
1. On the **Create project** page, specify the following settings and then select **Create**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Subscription|The name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab|
    |Resource group|The name of a **new** resource group **migrate-project-01-RG**|
    |Project|**migrate-project-01**|
    |Geography|**United States**|
    |Connectivity method|**Public endpoint**|

1. On the **Review + Create** tab, wait for the validation to complete and then select **Create**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the project to be provisioned. The project creation might take about 1 minute.

#### Task 3: Complete provisioning of the Azure Migrate appliance

In this task, you will complete provisioning of the Azure Migrate virtual appliance on the Hyper-V host and prepare it for the discovery task.

> **Note:** In this exercise, you will perform the discovery using two different methods - by relying on the functionality provided by an Azure Migrate appliance and by using a pre-created CSV file that contains information similar to the one generated by the appliance (to time it in the optimal manner, you will actually start with the appliance-based method, then import a pre-created CSV file, and then switch back to using the appliance). This approach will serve two main purposes:

- It will help you become familiar with both methods.
- It will help minimize the wait time required for the Azure Migrate Appliance discovery to complete.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, select **Discover**, and, in the drop-down menu, select **Using appliance**.
1. On the **Discover** page, in the **Are your servers virtualized?** drop-down list, select **Yes, with Hyper-V**.
1. In the section **1. Generate project key**, in the **Name your appliance** text box, enter **azmig01** and then select **Generate key**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the creation of the project-related Azure resources to complete. This might take about 3 minutes.

1. Record the project key. You will need it later in this exercise.
1. In the section **2. Download Azure Migrate appliance**, note the **.VHD file. 12 GB** option next to the **Download** button. 

    > **Note:** As mentioned earlier, the VHD file has been already downloaded to the lab computer and set up to expedite the process of provisioning the appliance. Do **NOT** initiate the download since this would take an extensive amount of time. 

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the Virtual Machine Connection window displaying the console session to the Azure Migrate virtual appliance. 
1. Within the Virtual Machine Connection window, in the web browser displaying the **Appliance Configuration Manager** page, verify that the **Check connectivity to Azure** and **Check time is in sync with Azure** steps successfully completed. 

    > **Note:** If you are still seeing the **Check connectivity to Azure** step failing, select **Diagnose and sove** again until this step completes successfully.

1. In the **Check latest updates and register appliance** section, in the **Register Hyper-V appliance by passing the key here** text box, enter the project key you recorded earlier in this task and select **Verify**.

    > **Note:** Use the **Type clipboard text** action in the **Clipboard** menu of the Virtual Machine Connection window to paste the product key value.

    > **Note:** The appliance will verify the key and start the auto-update service, which updates all the services on the appliance to their latest versions. This might take about 5 minutes. Do not wait for the appliance update to complete but instead proceed to the next task.

#### Task 4: Import data about Windows Server assets into Azure Migrate

In this task, you will import data about the servers you intend to migrate to Azure into the project you created earlier in this exercise. 

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, open another tab and navigate to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases and web apps** page. Next, in the **Assessment tools** section, select **Discover**, and, in the drop-down list, select **Using import**.
1. On the **Discover** page, in the **File type** drop-down list, ensure that the **Server inventory (CSV)** option is selected and review the corresponding instructions.

    > **Note:** Typically, you would download a **CSV template** file and populate it with data applicable to the servers you intend to migrate. In this case, you will use a pre created CSV file that contains the relevant information for **DC01**, **FS01**, and **WEB01** servers. 

1. Open File Explorer and, in the **Documents** folder, create a file named **AzureMigrateImport-01.csv**. Copy into the file the content available at `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MicrosoftLearning/Migrating-Windows-Server-to-Microsoft-Azure/refs/heads/master/Allfiles/Labs/AzureMigrateimport-01.csv` and save the change.

    > **Note:** Review the content and verify that it contains information about the three virtual machines representing the on-premises environment.

1. Next to the **3. Import the CSV file** step, select the **Browse** button, in the **Open** dialog box, navigate to the location of the file, select it, select **Open**, and, once back on the **Discover** page, select **Import**.

    > **Note:** Do not wait for the import to complete but instead proceed to the next task. The discovery might take up to 10 minutes to complete.

#### Task 5: Configure the Azure Migrate appliance

In this task, you will complete configuration of the Azure Migrate virtual appliance on the Hyper-V host.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch back to the Virtual Machine Connection window to the Azure Migrate appliance.
1. In the Microsoft Edge window displaying the **Appliance Configuration Manager** page, in the **Azure user login and appliance registration status** section, select **Login**.
1. In the **Continue with Azure Login** pane, select **Copy code & Login**. This will automatically open another tab in the same web browser window.
1. When prompted, enter the code you just copied and select **Next**.
1. When prompted, sign in by using the same Microsoft Entra ID credentials you used to access your Azure subscription earlier in this exercise.
1. When prompted **Are you trying to sign in to Microsoft Azure PowerShell?**, select **Continue**.
1. Switch back to the web browser tab displaying the **Appliance Configuration Manager** page and verify that the registration of the appliance was initiated.

    > **Note:** Do not wait the registration to complete but instead proceed to the next task. The registration might take up to 10 minutes, although it typically completes within 5 minutes.

#### Task 6: Assess manually imported data about Windows Server assets

In this task, you will use Azure Migrate to assess data about Windows Server assets you imported into Azure Migrate earlier in this exercise.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the web browser displaying the Azure portal and navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page.
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, in the **Assessment tools** section, verify that the summary lists **3** discovered servers.

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button at the top of the page to update the discovery status.

1. In the **Assessment tools** section, select **Assess** menu header and, in the drop-down menu, select **Azure VM**.
1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create assessment** page, ensure that the **Assessment type** is set to **Azure VM** and **Discovery source** is set to **Imported servers** and then, on the right side of **Assessment settings**, select **Edit**.
1. On the **Assessment settings** page, specify the following settings and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Target location|**East US 2**|
    |Storage type|**Premium managed disks**|
    |Saving options (Compute)|**None**|
    |Sizing criteria|**As on-premises**|
    |VM series|**Dsv3_series**|
    |Comfort factor|**1**|
    |Offer/Licensing program|**Pay-As-You-Go**|
    |Currency|**US Dollar ($)**|
    |Discount|**0**|
    |VM uptime Day(s) per month|**31**|
    |VM uptime Hour(s) per day|**24**|
    |I have a Windows Server license|**No**|
    |I have an Enterprise Linux subscription|**No**|
    |Security|**Yes, with Microsoft Defender for Cloud**|

    > **Note:** The choice of the target location is arbitrary in this case. In general, you would choose the Azure region most suitable for the workload you are migrating.

    > **Note:** The choice of **Sizing criteria** in our case is driven by the lack of performance data. In general, you might want to consider using the **Performance-based** option, since this would take into account potential cost savings if the resources allocated to on-premises servers are underutilized.

    > **Note:** The choice of VM series would be dependent on the Windows Server workloads.

1. Back on the **Basics** tab of the **Create assessment** page, select **Next: Select servers to assess >**.
1. On the **Select servers to assess** tab, perform the following actions:

   1. In the **Assessment name** text box, enter **import-based-assessment-01**
   1. In the **Select or create a group** section, ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the **Group name** text box, enter **import-based-assessment-01-group-01**
   1. In the **Add machines to the group** section, review the list of the servers and select the checkboxes next to **DC01** and **FS01**.

       > **Note:** If there are no servers listed at this point, re-import the same file again. 

       > **Note:** As you review the list of the servers, note the **Out of support** links appearing in the **Operating system support** column in the rows containing the **DC01** and **FS01** entries. Select the links and review the information provided in the **Operating system license support status** pane. As per the information provided there, one (and, in some cases, the only) way to remediate this issue is to migrate the servers to Azure, which provides the benefit of the free, extended support for operating system security updates.

1. Select **Next: Review + create assessment >**.
1. On the **Next: Review + create assessment** tab, select **Create assessment**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the assessment to complete. The assessment preparation should take less than 1 minute.

1. To view the outcome of the assessment you initiated in the previous exercise, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page and, in the **Assessment tools** section, in the **Assessment** subsection, select **1** next to the **Azure VM** entry.

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button at the top of the page to update the assessment status.

1. On the **Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment \| Assessments** page, verify that the **import-based-assessment-01** entry is listed with the **Ready** status, and select it.
1. On the **import-based-assessment-01** page, review the graphs representing such information about Windows Server virtual machines as **Azure readiness**, **Monthly cost estimates**, **Storage - Monthly cost estimates**, **Distribution by OS License support status**, and **Distribution by Windows Server version**. The page also contains **Saving options**, which provide the estimate of savings with Azure Hybrid benefit.

    > **Note:** To display more detailed information, select **Azure readiness** and **Cost details** items in the **Assessment details** section in the vertical navigation menu on the left side of the **import-based-assessment-01** page.

#### Task 7: Discover Windows Server assets by using the Azure Migrate appliance

In this task, you will use the Azure Migrate virtual appliance you implemented earlier in this exercise to discover Windows Server assets. 

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the Virtual Machine Connection window to the Azure Migrate virtual appliance.
1. In the web browser window displaying the **Appliance Configuration Manager** page, scroll down to the section titled **2. Manage credentials and discovery sources** and, in **Step 1: Provide Hyper-V credentials for discovery of Hyper-V VMs**, select **Add credentials**.
1. In the **Add credentials** pane, specify the following settings and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Source type|**Hyper-V Host/Cluster**|
    |Friendly name|**HyperVAdmin**|
    |Username|The name of the user account you used to sign in to **hypervhost**|
    |Password|The password of the user account you used to sign in to **hypervhost**|

1. Scroll down to **Step 2: Provide Hyper-V host/cluster details** and select **Add discovery source**.
1. In the **Add discovery source** pane, select **Add single item**, specify the following settings, and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Discovery source|**Hyper-V Host/Cluster**|
    |IP Address/FQDN|**192.168.0.1**|
    |Map credentials|**HyperVAdmin**|

    > **Note:** **192.168.0.1** is the IP address assigned to the Hyper-V host network interface connected to the **Internal** virtual switch, to which all of the nested virtual machines are connected. You can verify this by reviewing the output of the **ipconfig** command, which you can run within the Hyper-V host and the virtual appliance.

1. Ensure that the validation status of the discovery source is successful. 
1. Scroll down to **Step 3: Provide server credentials to perform software inventory, agentless dependency analysis, discovery of SQL Server instances and databases and discovery of web apps in your Hyper-V environment**, ensure that the slider is enabled, select **Add credentials**, specify the following settings, and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Credentials type|**Domain credentials**|
    |Friendly name|**DomainAdmin**|
    |Domain name|**tailwindtraders.org**|
    |Username|**Administrator**|
    |Password|**Pa55w.rd1234**|

1. In the same section, select **Add credentials** again, specify the following settings, and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Credentials type|**Windows (Non-domain)**|
    |Friendly name|**LocalAdmin**|
    |Username|**Administrator**|
    |Password|**Pa55w.rd1234**|

    > **Note:** After the Hyper-V Server discovery, the automatically initiates software inventory, followed by discovery of SQL Server instances and databases, and discovery of web apps. This might take up to 24 hours to complete, so it will not be covered here. 

    > **Note:** In general, you should follow the principle of least privilege when deciding which accounts to use for discovery. The account you specify should be a member of the local Administrators group on the servers you intend to migrate. We rely on the built-in domain Administrator account strictly for the sake of simplicity. 

1. Select **Start discovery**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the discovery to complete. This typically takes about 5 minutes but it might take longer if there are any issues with connectivity or access to the servers being discovered. 

#### Task 8: Assess Windows Server assets discovered by using the Azure Migrate appliance

In this task, you will use Azure Migrate to assess Windows Server assets discovered by using Azure Migrate Appliance.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page (ensure that the project filter is set to **migrate-project-01**).
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, in the **Assessment tools** section, select **Assess** menu header and, in the drop-down menu, select **Azure VM**.
1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create assessment** page, ensure that the **Assessment type** is set to **Azure VM** and **Discovery source** is set to **Servers discovered from Azure Migrate appliance** and then, on the right side of **Assessment settings**, select **Edit**.
1. On the **Assessment settings** page, specify the following settings and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Target location|**East US 2**|
    |Storage type|**Premium managed disks**|
    |Saving options (Compute)|**None**|
    |Sizing criteria|**As on-premises**|
    |VM series|**Dsv3_series**|
    |Comfort factor|**1**|
    |Offer/Licensing program|**Pay-As-You-Go**|
    |Currency|**US Dollar ($)**|
    |Discount|**0**|
    |VM uptime Day(s) per month|**31**|
    |VM uptime Hour(s) per day|**24**|
    |Already have a Windows Server license|**No**|
    |Security|**Yes, with Microsoft Defender for Cloud**|

    > **Note:** Here as well, the choice of the target location is arbitrary in this case. In general, you would choose the Azure region most suitable for the workload you are migrating.

    > **Note:** As before, the choice of **Sizing criteria** in our case is driven by the lack of performance data. In general, you might want to consider using the **Performance-based** option, since this would take into account potential cost savings if the resources allocated to on-premises servers are underutilized.

    > **Note:** The choice of VM series would be dependent on the Windows Server workloads.

1. Back on the **Basics** tab of the **Create assessment** page, select **Next: Select servers to assess >**.
1. On the **Select servers to assess** tab, verify that there are four servers listed in the lower section of the page and then perform the following actions:

   1. In the **Assessment name** text box, enter **appliance-based-assessment-01**
   1. In the **Select or create a group** section, ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the **Group name** text box, enter **appliance-based-assessment-01-group-01**
   1. In the **Add machines to the group** section, review the list of the servers and select the checkboxes next to **FS01** and **DC01**.

       > **Note:** Here as well you should have the **Out of support** links appearing in the **Operating system support** column in the rows containing the **DC01** and **FS01** entries. Select the links and review the information provided in the **Operating system license support status** pane. As per the information provided there, one (and, in some cases, the only) way to remediate this issue is to migration to Azure, which provides the benefit of the free, extended support for operating system security updates.

1. Select **Next: Review + create assessment >**.
1. On the **Next: Review + create assessment** tab, select **Create assessment**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the assessment to complete. The assessment preparation should take less than 1 minute.

1. As with import-based assessment, to view the outcome, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page and, in the **Assessment tools** section, in the **Assessment** subsection, select **2** next to the **Azure VM** entry.

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button at the top of the page to update the assessment status.

1. On the **Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment \| Assessments** page, verify that the **appliance-based-assessment-01** entry is listed with the **Ready** status, and select it.

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button at the top of the page to update the list of assessments.

1. On the **appliance-based-assessment-01** page, review the graphs representing such information for both Windows Server virtual machines as **Azure readiness**, **Monthly cost estimates**, **Storage - Monthly cost estimates**, **Distribution by OS License support status**, and **Distribution by Windows Server version**. The page also contains **Saving options**, which provide the estimate of savings with Azure Hybrid benefit.

    > **Note:** To display more detailed information, select **Azure readiness** and **Cost details** items in the vertical navigation menu on the left side of the **appliance-based-assessment-01** page.

### Exercise 2: Assess and migrate on-premises ASP.NET web apps by using Azure Migrate and App Service migration assistant

Estimated Time: 15 minutes

In this exercise, you will use Azure Migrate to assess an on-premises ASP.NET web app and then you will leverage App Service migration assistant tool to migrate it to Azure App Service code. The exercise will involve the following on-premises servers:

- HYPERVHOST
- WEB01

The exercise consists of the following tasks:

- Task 1: Assess migration of ASP.NET web apps to Azure App Service code
- Task 2: Migrate an ASP.NET web app to Azure App Service code

#### Task 1: Assess migration of ASP.NET web apps to Azure App Service code

In this task, you will use Azure Migrate to assess migration of ASP.NET web apps discovered by using Azure Migrate appliance to Azure App Service.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page (ensure that the project filter is set to **migrate-project-01**).
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, in the **Assessment tools** section, verify that **2** appears next to the **Servers running Web apps** entry. Next, select **Assess** menu header and, in the drop-down menu, select **Web apps on Azure**.
1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create assessment** page, ensure that the **Assessment type** is set to **Web apps on Azure** and **Scenario** is set to **Web apps to App Service** (this will automatically set the value of the **Discovery source** to **Servers discovered from Azure Migrate appliance**) and then, on the right side of **Assessment settings**, select **Edit**.
1. On the **Assessment settings** page, specify the following settings and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Target location|**East US 2**|
    |Environment type|**Production**|
    |Offer/Licensing program|**Pay-As-You-Go**|
    |Currency|**US Dollar ($)**|
    |Discount|**0**|
    |Saving options (Compute)|**None**|
    |Isolation required|**No**|
    |Security|**Yes, with Microsoft Defender for Cloud**|

    > **Note:** The choice of the target location is arbitrary in this case. In general, you would choose the Azure region most suitable for the workload you are migrating.

1. Back on the **Basics** tab of the **Create assessment** page, select **Next: Select servers to assess >**.
1. On the **Select servers to assess** tab, verify that the **WEB01** entry is listed in the lower section of the page.

    > **Note:** In case **WEB01** is not listed in the lower section of the page, use the following procedure instead and then proceed directly to step 10.

   1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page.
   1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, in the **Assessment tools** section, select **2** that appears next to the **Servers running Web apps** entry.
   1. On the **Discovered servers** page, verify that the **WEB01** entry is listed in the lower section of the page and then select **Create group**.
   1. On the **Create group** page, verify that the **Servers discovered from Azure Migrate appliance** entry appears in the **Discovery source** drop-down list.
   1. In the **Group name** text box, enter **appliance-based-assessment-02-group-01**.
   1. In the **Group purpose** drop-down list, select **I want to use this group to create assessments for Web apps on Azure**.
   1. In the **Scenario** drop-down list, select **Web apps to App Service**.
   1. In the **Add machines to the group** section, select the checkbox next to the **WEB01** entry and then select **Create**.
   1. Back on the **Discovered servers** page, select **Assess** and then, in the drop-down menu, select **Web apps on Azure**.
   1. Continue by repeating the instructions provided in this task starting with step **3**.

1. Next, on the **Basics** of the **Create assessment** page, perform the following actions:

   1. In the **Assessment name** text box, enter **appliance-based-assessment-02**
   1. In the **Select or create a group** section, ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the **Group name** text box, enter **appliance-based-assessment-02-group-01** (if you already created the group, select the **Use existing** option and, in the drop-down list, select **appliance-based-assessment-02-group-01**).
   1. If you created a new group, rather than selected the existing one), in the **Add machines to the group** section, select the checkbox next to **WEB01**.

1. Select **Next: Review + create assessment >**.
1. On the **Next: Review + create assessment** tab, select **Create assessment**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the assessment to complete. The assessment preparation should take less than 1 minute.

1. To view the outcome, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page and, in the **Assessment tools** section, in the **Assessment** subsection, select **1** next to the **Web apps on Azure** entry.

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button at the top of the page to update the assessment status.

1. On the **Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment \| Assessments** page, verify that the **appliance-based-assessment-02** entry is listed with the **Ready** status, and select it.

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button at the top of the page to update the list of assessments.

1. On the **appliance-based-assessment-02** page, review the graphs representing readiness of the two migration scenarios (all Web applications to Azure App Service Code and all Web applications to Azure App Service Containers) along with monthly cost estimates for each.  

    > **Note:** To display more detailed information, select **Azure App Service Code** and **Azure App Service Containers** items in the vertical navigation menu on the left side of the **appliance-based-assessment-02** page.

#### Task 2: Migrate an ASP.NET web app to Azure App Service code

In this task, you will migrate the ASP.NET web app assessed in the previous task to Azure App Service Code by using Azure Migrate.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page and, in the **Migration tools** section, verify that there are **3** discovered ASP.NET apps and then select **Replicate**.

    > **Note:** The additional **2** ASP.NET apps (in addition to the one running on **WEB01**) are hosted on the Azure Migrate virtual appliance (which was included in the discovery process).

1. On the **Specify intent** page, perform the following tasks:

   1. In the **What do you want to migrate?** drop-down list, select **ASP.NET web apps**.
   1. In the **Where do you want to migrate to?** drop-down list, select **Azure VM**.
   1. In the **Virtualization type** drop-down list, select **Hyper-V**.

    > **Note:** While you might not be able at this point to select the assessment you created in the previous task of this exercise, the Azure Migrate web interface will guide you to the next step.

1. On the **Specify intent** page, note the informational message stating **Web apps can be modernized to App Service Native using the App Service migration assistant tool** and then select the **App Service migration assistant tool** link. 

    > **Note:** This will open the Microsoft Learn documentation page describing [.NET migration cases for Azure App Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/app-service-asp-net-migration).

1. On the **.NET migration cases for Azure App Service** page, scroll down to the **App Service migration tools and resources** section and copy the App Service Migration Assistant installer download link `https://appmigration.microsoft.com/api/download/windowspreview/AppServiceMigrationAssistant.msi`.
1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the **Hyper-V Manager** console, in the list of virtual machines, select **WEB01** and, in the **Actions** pane, select **Connect**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window to **WEB01**, launch Microsoft Edge.
1. In the Microsoft Edge window, paste the App Service Migration Assistant installer download link you copied earlier in this task.

    > **Note:** Use the **Type clipboard text** action in the **Clipboard** menu of the Virtual Machine Connection window to paste the link.

1. Once the download completes, launch the Microsoft Installer file and run the installation.
1. Once the installation completes, use the **Start** menu shortcut to start **AppServiceMigrationAssistant**.
1. On the **Start** page of the **Azure App Service Migration Assistant** window, ensure that the **IIS Server** option is selected, select **Default Web Site**, and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Assessment Report for 'Default Web Site'** page, ensure that there are no warning or errors and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Login to Azure** page, select the button **Copy Code & Open Browser**. When prompted **How do you want to open this?**, select **Microsoft Edge** and then select **OK**. 
This will automatically open another web browser window tab.
1. When prompted, enter the code automatically copied to Clipboard and select **Next**.
1. When prompted to sign in, enter the same Microsoft Entra ID credentials you used to access your Azure subscription earlier in this lab.
1. When prompted **Are you trying to sign in to Azure App Service Migration Assistant?**, select **Continue** and, once successfully signed in, close the browser tab.
1. Switch back to the **Azure App Service Migration Assistant** window, on the **Azure Migrate Hub** page, in the **Azure Migrate Project** drop-down list, select **migrate-project-01**, and select **Next**.
1. On the **Azure Options** page, specify the following settings and then select **Migrate**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Subscription|The name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab|
    |Resource group|**Create new** resource group named **migrate-webapp-target-01-RG**|
    |Destination site name|any globally unique valid DNS host name|
    |App service plan|**Create new**|
    |Region|**East US 2**|
    |Database|**Skip database setup**|

1. On the **Migration in Progress** page, review the migration status.

    > **Note:** Do not wait for the migration to complete. Instead, proceed to the next exercise of this lab. The migration might take about 5 minutes. Consider returning to this exercise at some point to validate its outcome.

1. To validate the outcome of this exercise, on the **Migration Results** page, select the button **Go to your website** and verify that it opens the default Internet Information Services web page hosted in a newly created Azure web app, which name you specified earlier in this task.

### Exercise 3: Migrate Windows Server resources by using Azure Migrate

Estimated Time: 90 minutes

> **Important:** Before you start working on this exercise, verify that the deployment to the resource group **nested-hyper-v-RG** successfully completed.

> **Note:** This scenario, for practical reasons, is performed on different set of servers than those you used for assessment in the first exercise of this lab. However, with the exception of being able to leverage existing assessment results, the migration process illustrated in this exercise would be largely the same (from the functional standpoint) if performed on the same Hyper-V virtual machines as those targeted by the Azure Migrate assessment.

In this exercise, you will migrate on-premises Windows Servers to an Azure VM by using Azure Migrate. The exercise will involve the following on-premises servers:

- HYPERVHOST
- DC01
- FS01

The exercise consists of the following tasks:

- Task 1: Register the Hyper-V Server host with Azure Migrate
- Task 2: Prepare for migration of Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs
- Task 3: Replicate Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs
- Task 4: Test migration of Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs
- Task 5: Migrate Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs

#### Task 1: Register the Hyper-V Server host with Azure Migrate

In this task, you will register the Hyper-V Server host with Azure Migrate.

1. If needed, within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the web browser displaying the Azure portal.
1. In the Azure portal, in the **Search** text box, search for and select **Virtual machines**.
1. On the **Virtual machines** page, in the list of virtual machines, select **hypervhost**.
1. On the **hypervhost** virtual machine page, note its **Location** property in order to determine its Azure region.

    > **Note:** You will use this information later in this lab.

1. On the **hypervhost** virtual machine page, select **Connect** and, in the drop-down menu, select **Connect**.
1. On the **hypervhost \| Connect** page, select **Download RDP file**.
1. Open the downloaded RDP file, in the **Remote Desktop Connection** pop-up window, select **Connect**.
1. When prompted to enter credentials, authenticate by using the **migadmin** user name and the password consisting of the **mig** prefix followed by the password of the user account you used to access the Azure subscription used in this lab (provided to you by your lab provider).
1. Within the Remote Desktop session to **hypervhost**, if prompted **Do you want to allow your PC to be discoverable by other PCs and devices on this network?**, select **No**.
1. Within the Remote Desktop session to **hypervhost**, switch to the Server Manager window, select the **Tools** menu header, and, in the drop-down menu, select **Hyper-V Manager**. 
1. In the **Hyper-V Manager** console, in the list of virtual machines, select **DC01** and then, in the lower section of the **Actions** pane, select **Connect**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, in the top menu, select **Action** and, in the drop-down menu, select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**.
1. When prompted, authenticate as **TAILWINDTRADERS\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.
1. If prompted for Windows activation, select **Ask me later** and then, select **OK**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, select **Windows PowerShell** icon in the taskbar.
1. From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following commands:

    > **Note:** This is required to address an issue unrelated to the migration scenario, which affects the IP configuration of the virtual machine representing the on-premises Active Directory domain controller.

    ```powershell
    $networkConfig = Get-WmiObject Win32_NetworkAdapterConfiguration -Filter "IPEnabled='true'"
    $networkConfig.EnableStatic('192.168.0.4','255.255.255.0')
    $networkConfig.SetGateways('192.168.0.1', 1)
    $networkConfig.SetDNSServerSearchOrder('127.0.0.1')

    Start-Service -Name "DNS"

    Enable-PSRemoting -Force

    $registryPath = "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip6\Parameters"
    $registryName = "DisabledComponents"
    Set-ItemProperty -Path $registryPath -Name $registryName -Type dword -Value 0xff

    Restart-Computer -Force
    ```

1. Switch back to the Remote Desktop session to **hypervhost** and start Windows PowerShell ISE.
1. From the Windows PowerShell ISE console pane, run the following command to restart the remaining virtual machines:

    > **Note:** This is required to address an issue unrelated to the migration scenario, which affects the IP configuration of the virtual machine representing the on-premises Active Directory domain controller.

    ```powershell
    Restart-VM -Name 'FS01','WEB01' -Force
    ```

    > **Note:** Next, you will configure the Azure Migrate project.

1. Within the Remote Desktop session to **hypervhost**, start a web browser and navigate to the Azure portal at `https:\\portal.azure.com`.
1. When prompted to authenticate, sign in by using the Microsoft Entra ID credentials listed on the **Resources** tab of the lab web interface.
1. In the Azure portal, in the **Search** text box, search for and select **Azure Migrate**.
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Get started** page, in the **Migrate and modernize your datacenter** pane, in the **Servers, databases, and web apps** section, select **Discover, assess, and migrate**.
1. On the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page, ensure that **migrate-project-01** appears in the **Project** filter at the top of the page.
1. In the **Migration tools** section, select **Discover**.
1. On the **Discover** page, in the **Where do you want to migrate to?** drop-down list, select **Azure VM**.
1. In the **Are your servers virtualized?** drop-down list, select **Yes, with Hyper-V**.
1. In the **Target region** drop-down list, select the Azure region you identified earlier in this exercise (the same one where the **hypervhost** Azure VM resides).

    > **Note:** Make sure that you set the **Target region** as described.

1. Select the checkbox confirming that the target region for the migration is the one you selected and then select the **Crete resources** button.

    > **Note:** Wait for the resource provisioning to complete. This might take about 1 minute.

1. On the **Discover** page, in the section **1. Prepare Hyper-V host servers**, select the blue **Download** *link* to download the installer of the Hyper-V replication provider (AzureSiteRecoveryProvider.exe) software.

    > **Note:** Note that this is **different** from the **Download** *button*, which you will use in the next step. 

1. On the **Discover** page, in the section **1. Prepare Hyper-V host servers**, select the **Download** *button* to download credentials file for the Azure Recovery Services vault automatically provisioned by Azure Migrate.
1. Launch the downloaded **AzureSiteRecoveryProvider.exe** installer. This will start the **Azure Site Recovery Provider Setup (Hyper-V server)** wizard.
1. On the **Microsoft Update** tab of the **Azure Site Recovery Provider Setup (Hyper-V server)** wizard, select **Off** and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Installation** tab of the wizard, accept the default installation location and select **Install**. 

    > **Note:** Wait for the installation to complete. This might take about 1 minute.

1. Once the installation completes, select **Register**. This will start the **Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Registration Wizard**.
1. On the **Vault Settings** tab of the **Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Registration Wizard** window, select **Browse*, in the **Open** dialog box, navigate to the **Downloads** folder, select the newly downloaded vault credentials file, and then select **Open**.
1. Back on the **Vault Settings** tab, select **Next**.
1. On the **Proxy Settings** tab, select **Next**. This will trigger registration in the Azure Recovery Services vault.

    > **Note:** Wait for registration to complete. This might take about 3 minutes.

    > **Note:** In case you are presented with a message informing about an internal error during registration, delete the originally downloaded credentials file, use the **Download** button on the **Discover** page to download a new one, and rerun the **Azure Site Recovery Provider Setup (Hyper-V server)**. 

1. Switch back in the web browser window displaying the Azure portal, refresh the **Discover** page of **Azure Migrate**, in the **Where do you want to migrate to?** drop-down list, select **Azure VM**, in the **Are your servers virtualized?** drop-down list, select again **Yes, with Hyper-V**, in the **Do you want to install a new replication appliance or scale-out existing setup?** drop-down list, select **Install a replication appliance**, and then select **Finalize registration**.

    > **Note:** Do not wait for the registration to be finalized but instead proceed to the next task. Finalizing the registration might take about 15 minutes, although typically completes much faster.

#### Task 2: Prepare for migration of Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs

In this task, you will perform additional configuration tasks that should be completed prior to migrating systems running Windows Server to Azure VMs. Most of these tasks are not specific to Azure Migrate, but apply to migration scenarios in general. You will also implement an Azure Storage account used for storing replicated content of disks attached to on-premises servers (which is specific to Azure Migrate).

> **Note:** For more information, refer to the Microsoft Learn article [Prepare to connect to Azure Windows VMs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/prepare-for-migration#prepare-to-connect-to-azure-windows-vms). This article also lists changes automatically applied by Azure Migrate, which would need to be implemented separately if other migration tools were used. 

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the **Hyper-V Manager** console.
1. In the **Hyper-V Manager** console, in the list of virtual machines, select **FS01** and then, in the lower section of the **Actions** pane, select **Connect**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, in the top menu, select **Action** and, in the drop-down menu, select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**.
1. When prompted, authenticate as **TAILWINDTRADERS\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, select the PowerShell icon in the task bar.
1. From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following commands to disable Windows Updates:

    > **Note:** This is done strictly to minimize the possibility of Windows Updates interfering with the lab progress (increasing its duration). In general, you should not disable Windows Updates as part of your migration activities.

    ```powershell
    Stop-Service -Name wuauserv -Force
    Set-Service -Name wuauserv -StartupType Disabled
    $RegistryPath = "HKLM:\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\WindowsUpdate\AU"
    New-Item -Path $RegistryPath -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path $RegistryPath -Name "NoAutoUpdate" -Value 1
    ```

1. Run the following commands to ensure that all services required for VM connectivity are properly configured:

    ```powershell
    Get-Service -Name BFE, Dhcp, Dnscache, IKEEXT, iphlpsvc, nsi, mpssvc, RemoteRegistry |
      Where-Object StartType -ne Automatic |
      Set-Service -StartupType Automatic

    Get-Service -Name Netlogon, Netman, TermService |
      Where-Object StartType -ne Manual |
      Set-Service -StartupType Manual
    ```

1. Run the following commands to update the IP configuration so it matches the target virtual network settings:

    ```powershell
    $networkConfig = Get-WmiObject Win32_NetworkAdapterConfiguration -Filter "IPEnabled='true'"
    $networkConfig.EnableStatic('192.168.0.5','255.255.255.0')
    $networkConfig.SetGateways('192.168.0.1', 1)
    $networkConfig.SetDNSServerSearchOrder('192.168.0.4')
    ```

1. From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following commands to update the IP configuration so it matches the target virtual network settings:

    ```powershell
    $networkConfig = Get-WmiObject Win32_NetworkAdapterConfiguration -Filter "IPEnabled='true'"
    $networkConfig.EnableStatic('192.168.0.5','255.255.255.0')
    $networkConfig.SetGateways('192.168.0.1', 1)
    $networkConfig.SetDNSServerSearchOrder('192.168.0.4')
    ```

1. Run the following commands to enable Remote Desktop functionality (in case it is currently disabled) and configure it:

    ```powershell
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server' -Name fDenyTSConnections -Value 0 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Terminal Services' -Name fDenyTSConnections -Value 0 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server\Winstations\RDP-Tcp' -Name PortNumber -Value 3389 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server\WinStations\RDP-Tcp' -Name UserAuthentication -Value 0
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server\Winstations\RDP-Tcp' -Name LanAdapter -Value 0 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Terminal Services' -Name KeepAliveEnable -Value 1  -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Terminal Services' -Name KeepAliveInterval -Value 1  -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server\Winstations\RDP-Tcp' -Name KeepAliveTimeout -Value 1 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Terminal Services' -Name fDisableAutoReconnect -Value 0 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server\Winstations\RDP-Tcp' -Name fInheritReconnectSame -Value 1 -Type DWord -Force
    Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server\Winstations\RDP-Tcp' -Name fReconnectSame -Value 0 -Type DWord -Force
    Restart-Service -Name TermService -Force
    ```

1. Run the following commands to enable Windows Firewall with Advanced Security (in case it is currently disabled) and configure it:

    ```powershell
    netsh advfirewall set allprofiles state on
    netsh advfirewall firewall set rule group="Remote Desktop" new enable=yes
    netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="Allow ICMPv4 Echo Request" protocol=icmpv4 dir=in action=allow
    netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="AzurePlatformInbound" dir=in action=allow remoteip=168.63.129.16 profile=any edge=yes
    netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="AzurePlatformOutbound" dir=out action=allow remoteip=168.63.129.16 profile=any
    ```

1. Run the following command to enable PowerShell Remoting:

    ```powershell
    Enable-PSRemoting -Force
    ```

1. Switch to the Virtual Machine Connection window to **DC01**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, in the top menu, select **Action** and, in the drop-down menu, select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**.
1. When prompted, authenticate as **TAILWINDTRADERS\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.
1. If prompted for Windows activation, select **Ask me later** and then, select **OK**.
1. In the Virtual Machine Connection window, select **Windows PowerShell** icon in the taskbar.
1. From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the PowerShell commands provided in steps 8-11 (do not run commands in steps 6-7).
1. Run the following command to restart **DC01**:

    ```powershell
    Restart-Computer -Force
    ```

    > **Note:** Azure Migrate will attempt to install the Microsoft Azure Virtual Machine Agent (VM Agent). The agent manages interaction of the migrated VM with the Azure platform. It also has a primary role in enabling and executing Azure VM extensions that facilitate post-deployment configuration, such as installing and configuring software. Azure Migrate automatically installs the Windows VM agent on Windows Server 2008 R2 and newer operating system versions.

    > **Note:** The tasks provided here do not represent the full extent of changes that are recommended as part of migration. For details, refer to the Microsoft Learn article [Prepare to connect to Azure Windows VMs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/prepare-for-migration#prepare-to-connect-to-azure-windows-vms) mentioned earlier.

    > **Note:** Next, you will implement the Azure Storage account used for storing replicated content of disks attached to on-premises servers. While you might have the option to rely on Azure Migrate to automatically set it up for you, this functionality does not work consistently, so to avoid any potential issues, you will perform this task yourself.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the web browser window displaying the Azure portal, in the **Search** text box and then search for and select **Storage accounts**.
1. On the **Storage accounts** page, select **+ Create**.
1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create a storage account** page, specify the following settings and select **Next**.

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Subscription|The name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab|
    |Resource group| **migrate-target-01-RG**|
    |Storage account name|any globally unique name between 3 and 24 in length consisting of letters and digits|
    |Region|the name of the same Azure region you used earlier in this task|
    |Primary service|**Azure Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2**|
    |Performance|**Standard**|
    |Redundancy|**Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**|

1. On the **Advanced** tab, review the available options, accept the defaults, and select **Next**.
1. On the **Networking** tab, review the available options, accept the defaults, and select **Next**.
1. On the **Data protection** tab of the **Create storage account** page, clear the **Enable soft delete for blobs**, **Enable soft delete for containers**, and **Enable soft delete for file shares** checkboxes and select **Review + create**.

    > **Note:** The soft delete settings for blobs and containers features must be disabled when the storage account is used for hosting content replicated by Azure Site Recovery.

1. On the **Review + create** tab, wait for the validation process to complete and select **Create**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the provisioning to complete. Creation of an Azure Storage account should take less than 1 minute.

    > **Note:** You also need to ensure that Azure Migrate will be able to access the newly created storage account. To accomplish this, you will use the system assigned managed identity of the Azure Recovery Services vault, which Azure Migrate provisioned automatically for you. This Azure Recovery Services vault is actually the resource that orchestrates the replication activities.

1. In the web browser window displaying the Azure portal, in the **Search** text box and then search for and select **Recovery Services vaults**.
1. On the **Recovery Services vaults** page, select the vault name which starts with the **migrate-project-01** prefix.
1. On the Recovery Services vault page, in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, in the **Settings** section, select **Identity**.
1. On the vault's **Identity** page, ensure that the **System assigned** tab is selected, set the **Status** switch to **On** and select **Save**.
1. When prompted, in the **Enable system assigned managed identity** pop-up window, select **Yes**.
1. On the vault's **Identity** page, select **Azure role assignments**.
1. On the **Azure role assignments** page, select **+ Add role assignment (Preview)**.
1. In the **Add role assignment (Preview)** pane, specify the following settings and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Scope|**Storage**|
    |Subscription|The name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab|
    |Resource|The name of the storage account you created earlier in this task|
    |Role|**Contributor**|

1. Back on the **Azure role assignments** page, select **+ Add role assignment (Preview)**.
1. In the **Add role assignment (Preview)** pane, specify the following settings and then select **Save**:

    |Setting|Value|
    |---|---|
    |Scope|**Storage**|
    |Subscription|The name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab|
    |Resource|The name of the storage account you created earlier in this task|
    |Role|**Storage Blob Data Contributor**|

#### Task 3: Replicate Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs

In this task, you will use the Azure Migrate to initiate replication of two of the Hyper-V virtual machines running Windows Server. 

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page and, in the **Migration tools** section, verify that there are **7** discovered servers and then select **Replicate**.
1. On the **Specify intent** page, ensure that the **What do you want to migrate?** drop-down list contains the entry **Servers or virtual machines (VM)** and that the **Where do you want to migrate to?** drop-down list contains the entry **Azure VM**.
1. In the **Are your machines virtualized?** drop-down list, select **Yes, with Hyper-V** and then select **Continue**.
1. On the **Virtual machines** tab of the **Replicate** page, perform the following actions:

   1. In the **Import migration settings from an assessment** drop-down list, select **No, I'll specify the migration settings manually**.
   1. In the list of virtual machines, select the checkboxes next to **DC01** and **FS01** and then select **Next**.

1. On the **Target settings** tab of the **Replicate** page, perform the following actions:

   1. Ensure that the **Subscription** drop-down list displays the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab.
   1. In the **Resource group** section, select **migrate-target-01-RG**.
   1. Clear the checkbox **Register with SQL IaaS extension**.
   1. Leave the checkbox **I have a Windows Server license** cleared.
   1. Leave the checkbox **I have an Enterprise Linux license** cleared.
   1. In the **Cache storage account** drop-down list, select the storage account you created in the previous task.

    > **Note:** If this option is not available but instead you are presented with the **Replication storage account** drop-down list, select the storage account you created in the previous task. 

   1. In the **Virtual network** drop-down list, select **MigrateTargetVNET**.
   1. Ensure that **INFRA** appears in the **Subnet** drop-down list.
   1. Ensure that **No infrastructure redundancy required** appears in the **Availability options** drop-down list.

1. Select **Next**.
1. On the **Compute** tab of the **Replicate** page, in the **Azure VM Size** drop-down list, select **Standard_D2_v3** for both **DC01** and **FS01**.

    > **Note:** In scenarios where you successfully completed the Azure Migrate appliance discovery-based assessment, the Azure VM size assigned by default would be based on the recommended size from that assessment. You could change it at this point if needed. 

1. On the **Compute** tab of the **Replicate** page, in the **OS Type** drop-down list, select **Windows** for both **DC01** and **FS01**.
1. Select **Next**.
1. On the **Disks** tab of the **Replicate** page, in the **Disk Type** drop-down list, select **Premium** for both **DC01** and **FS01**.
1. Select **Next**.
1. On the **Tags** tab of the **Replicate** page, select **Next**.
1. On the **Review + Start replication** tab of the **Replicate** page, select **Replicate**.

    > **Note:** Wait for replication to complete. This might take about 10 minutes.

1. To monitor the progress of replication, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate \| Servers, databases, and web apps** page and, in the **Migration tools** section, select **Overview**.
1. On the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization** page, in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, in the **Migration** section, select **Jobs**. 
1. On the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Jobs** page, track the progress of jobs, looking in particular for **Finalize protection on the primary virtual machine**, followed by **Finalize protection on the recovery virtual machine**.

#### Task 4: Test migration of Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs

In this task, you will test the process of migrating Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, in the web browser displaying the Azure portal, verify that the job **Finalize protection on the recovery virtual machine** is listed with the **Successful** status for both **DC01** and **FS01**. 
1. Navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization** page and, in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, select **Replications**.
1. Ensure that the **DC01** virtual machine is listed with the **Protected** replication status (rather than **Waiting for first recovery point**).

    > **Note:** Use the **Refresh** button in the toolbar to update the replication status.

1. On the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page, select **DC01**.
1. On the **DC01** page, in the **General** section in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, select **Compute and Network**.
1. On the **DC01 \| Compute and Network** page, select **Edit** and then, in the **Network interfaces** section, select **NatSwitch**.
1. On the **Network interface** page, in the **Failover settings** column, in the **Private IP address** drop-down list, enter **192.168.0.4** and select **OK**.
1. Back on the **DC01 \| Compute and Network** page, select **Save** and then select **Overview**.
1. On the **DC01** page, in the toolbar, select **Test migration**. 
1. From the **Test migration** page, perform the following tasks:

   1. Select **Check for upgrade** next to the operating system label. 
   1. In the **OS Upgrade** pane, review the upgrade options available to you.

       > **Note:** In this lab, you will not step through an operating system upgrade since this would result in extra wait time. 

   1. In the **OS Upgrade** pane, select **Close**.
   1. Back on the **Test migration** page, in the **Virtual network** drop-down list, select **MigrateTargetVNET**.
   1. Select **Test migration**.

       > **Note:** Typically, you would use a separate, fully isolated virtual network for test migrations. You will use the same virtual network for migration for the sake of simplicity.

1. Navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page and select **FS01**.
1. On the **FS01** page, in the **General** section in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, select **Compute and Network**.
1. On the **FS01 \| Compute and Network** page, select **Edit** and then, in the **Network interfaces** section, select **NatSwitch**.
1. On the **Network interface** page, in the **Failover settings** column, in the **Private IP address** drop-down list, enter **192.168.0.5** and select **OK**.
1. Back on the **FS01 \| Compute and Network** page, select **Save** and then select **Overview**.
1. On the **FS01** page, in the toolbar, select **Test migration**. 
1. From the **Test migration** page, perform the following tasks:

   1. Select **Check for upgrade** next to the operating system label. 
   1. In the **OS Upgrade** pane, review the upgrade options available to you.

       > **Note:** In this lab, you will not step through an operating system upgrade since this would introduce extra wait time. 

   1. In the **OS Upgrade** pane, select **Close**.
   1. Back on the **Test migration** page, in the **Virtual network** drop-down list, select **MigrateTargetVNET**.
   1. Select **Test migration**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the test migration of both **DC01** and **FS01** to complete. This might take about 10 minutes.

1. To monitor the progress of replication, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Jobs** page.
1. Wait until the **Test failover** job completes for both **DC01** and **FS01**.

    > **Note:** At this point, you would be able to connect to both Azure VMs and verify their functionality. You will skip this task due to time constraints.

1. Within the Remote Desktop session to **hypervhost**, in the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page.
1. On the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page, select **DC01**.
1. On the **DC01** page, select **Clean up test migration**.
1. On the **Test migrate cleanup** page, select the checkbox **Testing is complete. Delete test virtual machine** and then select **Cleanup Test**.
1. Navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page.
1. On the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page, select **FS01**.
1. On the **FS01** page, select **Clean up test migration**.
1. On the **Test migrate cleanup** page, select the checkbox **Testing is complete. Delete test virtual machine** and then select **Cleanup Test**.

    > **Note:** Wait for the test migrate cleanup to complete. This might take about 2 minutes. As before, you can monitor the progress of the **Test failover cleanup** jobs from the  **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Jobs** page.

#### Task 5: Migrate Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs

In this task, you will perform the final migration of Windows Server virtual machines to Azure VMs. Note that, by design, this migration is considered non-reversible. 

1. Navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page and, in the list of replicated virtual machines, select **DC01**.
1. On the **DC01** page, in the **General** section in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, select **Compute and Network**.
1. On the **DC01 \| Compute and Network** page, note that the **Target IP** column already contains the entry **192.168.0.4 (Static)** which you set during the test migration.
1. On the **DC01 \| Compute and Network** page, select **Overview**.
1. On the **DC01** page, select **Migrate**.
1. On the **Migrate** page, ensure that the **Shutdown virtual machines and perform a planned migration with no data loss?** drop-down list entry is set to **Yes** and then select **Migrate**.
1. Navigate back to the **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Replications** page and select **FS01**.
1. On the **FS01** page, in the **General** section in the vertical navigation menu on the left side, select **Compute and Network**.
1. On the **FS01 \| Compute and Network** page, note that the **Target IP** column already contains the entry **192.168.0.5 (Static)** which you set during the test migration.
1. On the **FS01 \| Compute and Network** page, select **Overview**.
1. On the **FS01** page, select **Migrate**.
1. On the **Migrate** page, ensure that the **Shutdown virtual machines and perform a planned migration with no data loss?** drop-down list entry is set to **Yes** and then select **Migrate**.

    > **Note:** Depending on the amount of available time, you might consider waiting for the migration to complete. This should take about 10 minutes. As before, you can monitor the progress of the **Planned failover** job from the  **Azure Migrate: Migration and modernization \| Jobs** page.

1. Within the console session to **hypervhost**, switch to the **Hyper-V Manager** console and verify that both **DC01** and **FS01** are in the **Off** state. 
